MultiJave: modular open classes and symmetric multiple dispatch for Jave
C. Clifton, G. T. Leavens, C. Chambers, and T. Millstein

Notes:

--------------------------------------------------------------
In-calss assignment:

Summary notes:
Summary:
The authors purpose an extension to Java, called MultiJava, that adds
open classes and multiple dispatch.  

Open classes allow programmers to add methods to existing classes without editing those classes, or even having their source code. Multiple dispatch allows the code invoked by a method call to depend on the run-time type of all the arguments, instead of just the receiver.
In this article we have described the MultiJava programming language, motivated the design of the language, and discussed its modular, static typechecking, and modular compilation strategy. MultiJava adds the ability to dispatch on a class externally, that is without modifying the class in place. Among
other things, this allows MultiJava to cleanly solve the binary and augmenting
method problems. It does so, unlike other solutions, without requiring advance
planning by the original implementor of a datatype. We think that MultiJava
represents a sweet spot in the design space: it allows the concise, declarative
expression of multimethod dispatch and augmenting methods; and its type system is simple and intuitive.
We have also demonstrated how MultiJava’s conservative extension of Java
has allowed our users to easily adopt the language while creating more readable
and maintainable code. Sample code drawn from our user community illustrates
the benefits afforded by multiple dispatch and open classes and provides at least
anecdotal evidence arguing for the inclusion of these features in mainstream
programming languages.
MultiJava is a conservative extension of the Java programming language that adds symmetric
multiple dispatch and open classes. Among other benefits, multiple dispatch provides a solution
to the binary method problem. Open classes provide a solution to the extensibility problem of
object-oriented programming languages, allowing the modular addition of both new types and
new operations to an existing type hierarchy. 

Take home(s):
Open classes provide a solution to the expression problem for OO programming
languages by allowing extension of new types and operations modularly.

Questions/topics for discussion:


Discussion notes:
Summary:

Take home(s):
  
Discussion highlights:
