Harper and Pierce, Design Considerations for an ML-Style Module System, 
from Advanced Topics in Types and Programming Languages, 2005 
Section 8.5, The Pragmatics of Functors from 8.8

Notes:
- transparent signature: reveals the definitions of the type components.
- dadv of transparent sig: 1) a first-class module expression cannot
  impl a transparent sig 2) if we limit ourselve to transparent sigs 
  we imped modular programming by creating tight dependenciesbw modules
- we can allow abstract (opaque) type declarations in our modules to 
  reveal the existence of a type component but not its definition. as
  opposed to concrete (transparent) type declarations.
- an abst type decl holds its type abstract i.e. it hides its rep.
- translucent sig: type decls may be either concrete or abstract
- sigs with abstract type decls are similar to existential types.
- translucency suports rep independence in much the same manner as do
  existential types.
- translucent sigs support a flexible form of data abstr, permit 
  formation of first-class module expressions and they're crucial for
  permitting fine-grained control over the propagation of type definitions 
  in hierarchical and parametreized modules while maintaining static 
  typing.
- the sig matching relation needs to be generalized to permit forgetting
  of type defs: an abst type decl in a super-sig may be matched by wither 
  an abst or a concrete type decl in the sub-sig.
- sealing: to limit the visibility of the type components of a module to 
  the degree specified by a signature, we seal the module with the sig.
- a sealed module expression M :> I is well-formed only if M implements I.
- a sealed module is evaluated by stripping off the seal and evaluating the
  underlying module. which reflects the informal idea that data abst is
  relevant only during type checking and has no significance at run time.
- consequence of sealing modules with abstract type components is that sigs
  may contain unavoidable dependencies on modules.
- rep independence: ensures the behavior of clients are insulated from the 
  details of the impl of an abstr.
- determinate module expressions: type component are statically known. hence
  we're capable of selecting types.
- basic module expressions including module values are determinate
- sealed modules are indeterminate.
- A natural representation of a family of modules is as a λ-abstraction of a 
  module expression over a module variable of a specified signature. Such an 
  abstraction is called a parameterized module, or functor.8 Instances of the 
  family are obtained by functor application.
- motivation behind functors: 1) functors arise naturally in shared libraries.
  2) many progs are naturally functorial in nature. 3) some of link time 
  techniques are commonly used to achieve effects similar to those of functors.
- 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
In-calss assignment:

Summary notes:
Summary:
This section of the chapter focuses on various kinds of type declarations.
Transparent type declarations in a signature where we reveal both the type 
declaration and its definition. As a solution to issues raised from transparent
type declaration, abstract type declarations have been introduce to hide type 
representations. A way to soften the restriction of opaque type declarations
is to allow for both concrete and abstract type declarations in a signature,
such a signature is called a translucent signature. 

Next, the authors discuss sealing a module with a signature and its consequence:
signatures may contain dependencies on modules. They then discuss reasons to 
prohibit type selection such as undecidability of module equivalence and to be
able to ensure type safety when we have first-class module expressions. This 
results in introducing determinate (where type components are statically known) 
and indeterminate module expressions. Hence, we avoid violating the abstraction
of a module expression by just allowing type selection for determinate module
expressions.

They then introduce the avoidance problem is finding the least signature in a 
let expression of the form `let module m = M in M'` such that it doesn't have
bounde module variables to m. This is a central design 
issue for module systems to support data abstraction. Since there isn't an 
algorithm to detect prinicpal signatures we shift the burden to programmer to
specify such a signature. Finally, the authors discuss the motivations behind 
functors (module families) and other mechanisms that could address the same 
issues that functors address such as Haskell type classes.

Take home(s):
- The new terms: transparent vs abstract type declaration,
  translucent signatures, sealing a module with a signature, determinate and 
  indeterminate module expression and their relation to type selection, the 
  avoidance problem, module families (functors).
- Module equivalence is undeciadable which is one reason to prohibit type selection.


Questions/topics for discussion:
- Could we discuss how the abstract type formalization in the chapter differ
  from conventional existential types? (page 311) My understanding: existential
  types limit the scope of the representation of their abstraction while 
  abstract types here don't do that, i.e., they have a open scope. The closed
  scope of abstraction in existential types causes problem when we have 
  translucent sums because now we need to be able to reference our abstraction
  which we cannot in the case of existential types. 
- what is type selection? is it just say m.X?
- Is it right to say "a first-class module can only be well-formed if we seal 
  it with an interace"? Or is that just the case when we have indeterminate 
  module expression? (page 313)
- How is it that binding an indeterminate module expression to avariable makes
  referring to components of it through the variable possible? Is it because 
  we're shifting the reference to the components to run time instead of the 
  compile time?

Discussion notes:
Summary:

Take home(s):

Discussion highlights:
